=head1 NAME

iclass - Advanced Thread-Safe IO Operations Class for xclass Ecosystem

=head1 TABLE OF CONTENTS

=over 4

=item L</DESCRIPTION>

=item L</SYNOPSIS>

=item L</EXAMPLES>

=item L</METHODS>

=item L</OVERLOADED OPERATORS>

=item L</ERROR HANDLING>

=item L</LIMITATIONS AND CAVEATS>

=item L</CONFIGURATION>

=item L</PERFORMANCE CONSIDERATIONS>

=item L</THREAD SAFETY>

=item L</COMPATIBILITY>

=item L</DEPENDENCIES>

=item L</VERSION>

=item L</SEE ALSO>

=item L</AUTHOR>

=item L</COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The iclass module provides a robust and feature-rich interface for handling IO
operations within the xclass ecosystem. It offers thread-safe file and stream
manipulations, supporting various IO types and advanced features.

Key features include:

=over 4

=item * Thread-safe IO operations using xclass synchronization

=item * Support for multiple IO types (files, sockets, pipes, TTY, etc.)

=item * Advanced file operations: reading, writing, seeking, truncating

=item * Compression and encoding support with configurable thresholds

=item * File locking mechanisms for concurrent access control

=item * Atomic operations for data integrity

=item * Temporary file creation and secure file deletion

=item * Integration with other xclass reference types

=back

=head2 Integration with xclass Ecosystem

iclass inherits core functionality from xclass and can be instantiated directly
or through xclass factory methods. It implements the xclass event system for
operation tracking and seamlessly interacts with other xclass data types.

=head2 Thread Safety

All methods in iclass are designed to be thread-safe, utilizing xclass synchronization mechanisms.

=head2 Performance Considerations

iclass is optimized for both single-threaded and multi-threaded environments.
It uses configurable compression and flush intervals for fine-tuning performance.

=head2 Extensibility

The class is designed to be easily extended with additional IO operations and
supports custom event triggers for all operations.

=head2 Handling of Circular References

iclass, as part of the xclass ecosystem, incorporates sophisticated handling of circular references for IO operations.

- IO objects wrapped by iclass can safely be part of complex data structures that include other xclass objects.
- Circular references involving iclass objects, such as in callback systems or event handlers, are automatically detected and managed.
- The garbage collection process correctly handles iclass objects involved in circular references, ensuring proper resource cleanup.
- Users can create intricate IO handling systems with interconnected iclass objects without worrying about manual circular reference management.
- Any circular references created through shared filehandles or IO redirections are handled transparently.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use xclass;

    # Create a new iclass object
    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'FileIO');

    # Open a file for writing
    $io->open('example.txt', 'w');

    # Write to the file
    $io->write("Hello, World!");

    # Close the file
    $io->close();

    # Open a file for reading
    $io->open('example.txt', 'r');

    # Read from the file
    my $content;
    $io->read(\$content, 1024);

    # Close the file
    $io->close();

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Using Compression

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'CompressedIO');
    $io->open('large_file.txt', 'w');
    $io->set_compression(6);  # Set compression level
    $io->write($large_data);
    $io->close();

=head2 Atomic Operations

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'AtomicIO');
    $io->open('important_data.txt', 'r+');
    $io->atomic_operation(sub {
        my $data = $io->getline();
        $data =~ s/old/new/;
        $io->seek(0, 0);
        $io->write($data);
    });
    $io->close();

=head2 Secure File Deletion

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'SecureIO');
    $io->open('sensitive_data.txt', 'r+');
    # ... perform operations ...
    $io->secure_delete();

=head2 Overloading Examples

=head3 Dereference Overloading

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'DerefIO');
    $io->open('file.txt', 'w');
    my $fh = *$io;  # Get the underlying filehandle
    print $fh "Direct write\n";

=head3 Stringification Overloading

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'StringIO');
    $io->open('file.txt', 'w');
    print "IO object: $io\n";  # Prints the stringified representation

=head3 Numeric Context Overloading

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'NumericIO');
    $io->open('file.txt', 'w');
    my $fileno = 0 + $io;  # Get the file descriptor number

=head3 Boolean Context Overloading

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'BoolIO');
    if ($io) {
        print "IO handle is open\n";
    }

=head3 Negation Overloading

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'NegationIO');
    if (!$io) {
        print "IO handle is not open\n";
    }

=head3 Assignment Overloading

    my $io1 = Ic('MyApp', 'AssignIO1');
    my $io2 = Ic('MyApp', 'AssignIO2');
    $io2 = $io1;  # Assign $io1 to $io2

=head3 Equality Overloading

    my $io1 = Ic('MyApp', 'EqualityIO1');
    my $io2 = Ic('MyApp', 'EqualityIO2');
    if ($io1 == $io2) {
        print "IO handles are equal\n";
    }

=head3 Comparison Overloading

    my $io1 = Ic('MyApp', 'CompareIO1');
    my $io2 = Ic('MyApp', 'CompareIO2');
    if ($io1 cmp $io2) {
        print "IO handles are different\n";
    }

=head2 xclass Integration Examples

=head3 Using xclass Factory Method

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'FactoryIO');
    $io->open('xclass_file.txt', 'w');
    $io->write("xclass integration example");
    $io->close();

=head3 Interacting with Other xclass Types

    my $array = Ac(['data1', 'data2']);
    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'ArrayIO');
    $io->open('array_data.txt', 'w');
    $io->write($array->join("\n"));
    $io->close();

=head2 lclass Utilization Examples

=head3 Using lclass Synchronization

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'SyncIO');
    $io->sync(sub {
        $io->open('sync_file.txt', 'w');
        $io->write("Synchronized write");
        $io->close();
    });

=head3 Error Handling with lclass

    my $io = Ic('MyApp', 'ErrorIO');
    $io->try(sub {
        $io->open('nonexistent_file.txt', 'r');
    }, 'open_file');

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructor

=head3 new($ref, %options)

Creates a new iclass object.

    my $io = iclass->new();

=head2 Core Methods

=head3 open($filename, $mode)

Opens a file with the specified mode.

    $io->open('file.txt', 'w');

=head3 close()

Closes the currently open file.

    $io->close();

=head3 read($buffer, $length, $offset)

Reads data from the file into the buffer.

    my $buffer;
    $io->read(\$buffer, 1024);

=head3 write($buffer, $length, $offset)

Writes data from the buffer to the file.

    $io->write("Hello, World!");

=head3 seek($position, $whence)

Seeks to a position in the file.

    $io->seek(0, 0);  # Seek to the beginning

=head3 tell()

Returns the current position in the file.

    my $position = $io->tell();

=head3 eof()

Checks if the end of file has been reached.

    if ($io->eof()) {
        print "End of file reached\n";
    }

=head3 flush()

Flushes the file buffer.

    $io->flush();

=head3 fileno()

Returns the file descriptor for the IO handle.

    my $fd = $io->fileno();

=head3 binmode($layer)

Sets the binary mode for the file handle.

    $io->binmode(":raw");

=head3 is_open()

Checks if the IO handle is open.

    if ($io->is_open()) {
        print "IO handle is open\n";
    }

=head3 mode()

Returns the file mode.

    my $mode = $io->mode();

=head2 Advanced Methods

=head3 getline()

Reads a line from the file.

    my $line = $io->getline();

=head3 getlines()

Reads all lines from the file.

    my @lines = $io->getlines();

=head3 printf($format, @args)

Prints formatted output to the file.

    $io->printf("Name: %s, Age: %d", $name, $age);

=head3 say(@args)

Prints the arguments to the file, adding a newline.

    $io->say("Hello, World!");

=head3 truncate($length)

Truncates the file to the specified length.

    $io->truncate(100);

=head3 clear()

Clears the contents of the file.

    $io->clear();

=head3 lock_io($operation)

Locks the file for exclusive access.

    $io->lock_io(LOCK_EX);

=head3 unlock_io()

Unlocks the file.

    $io->unlock_io();

=head3 copy_to($destination, $buffer_size)

Copies the contents of the file to another file.

    $io->copy_to($other_io, 8192);

=head3 create_temp()

Creates a temporary file.

    my $temp_filename = $io->create_temp();

=head3 secure_delete()

Securely deletes the file contents.

    $io->secure_delete();

=head3 atomic_operation($code)

Performs an atomic operation on the file.

    $io->atomic_operation(sub {
        # Atomic operations here
    });

=head3 get_io_type()

Returns the type of the IO handle.

    my $type = $io->get_io_type();

=head3 autoflush($value)

Sets or gets the autoflush setting for the IO handle.

    $io->autoflush(1);

=head3 get_permissions()

Gets the file permissions.

    my $perms = $io->get_permissions();

=head3 set_permissions($mode)

Sets the file permissions.

    $io->set_permissions(0644);

=head3 get_owner()

Gets the file owner (UID and GID).

    my ($uid, $gid) = $io->get_owner();

=head3 set_owner($uid, $gid)

Sets the file owner.

    $io->set_owner(1000, 1000);

=head2 Configuration Methods

=head3 set_buffer_size($size)

Sets the buffer size for IO operations.

    $io->set_buffer_size(16384);

=head3 get_buffer_size()

Gets the current buffer size.

    my $size = $io->get_buffer_size();

=head3 set_encoding($encoding)

Sets the encoding for text operations.

    $io->set_encoding('utf8');

=head3 get_encoding()

Gets the current encoding.

    my $encoding = $io->get_encoding();

=head3 set_compression($level)

Sets the compression level for IO operations.

    $io->set_compression(6);

=head3 get_compression()

Gets the current compression setting.

    my $compression = $io->get_compression();

=head3 set_compression_level($level)

Sets the compression level.

    $io->set_compression_level(9);

=head3 get_compression_level()

Gets the current compression level.

    my $level = $io->get_compression_level();

=head3 set_flush_interval($interval)

Sets the automatic flush interval.

    $io->set_flush_interval(5);  # Flush every 5 seconds

=head3 get_flush_interval()

Gets the current flush interval.

    my $interval = $io->get_flush_interval();

=head1 OVERLOADED OPERATORS

iclass overloads the following operators:

=over 4

=item * Dereference (*{})

=item * Stringification ("")

=item * Numeric context (0+)

=item * Boolean context

=item * Negation (!)

=item * Assignment (=)

=item * Equality (==, !=)

=item * Comparison (cmp, <=>)

=back

=head1 ERROR HANDLING

iclass uses the error handling mechanisms provided by xclass. Errors can be caught and handled using eval blocks or try-catch constructs.

=head1 LIMITATIONS AND CAVEATS

=over 4

=item * Large file operations may consume significant memory, especially with compression enabled.

=item * Some advanced features may not be available on all platforms.

=item * Secure deletion may not be effective on all types of storage media.

=item * Thread safety relies on proper use of synchronization mechanisms.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

iclass inherits its configuration options from xclass. Specific options for iclass include:

=over 4

=item * buffer_size: Size of the buffer for IO operations (default: 8192 bytes).

=item * encoding: Default encoding for text operations (default: 'utf8').

=item * compression: Whether compression is enabled (default: 0).

=item * compression_level: Level of compression for IO operations (default: 6).

=item * compression_threshold: Minimum size for compression to be applied (default: 1024 bytes).

=item * flush_interval: Interval for automatic flushing (default: undef, no automatic flushing).

=back

=head1 PERFORMANCE CONSIDERATIONS

=over 4

=item * Buffer Size: Larger buffer sizes can improve performance for bulk operations but increase memory usage.

=item * Compression: Enables smaller file sizes but adds CPU overhead. Useful for large files or network transfers.

=item * Encoding: UTF-8 encoding may add overhead for non-ASCII text. Consider using 'raw' for binary data.

=item * Flush Interval: Frequent flushing ensures data integrity but may impact performance.

=back

=head1 THREAD SAFETY

iclass is designed to be thread-safe when used correctly. All public methods use xclass synchronization mechanisms to ensure safe concurrent access and modification of IO handles.

=head1 COMPATIBILITY

iclass requires Perl version 5.10 or higher due to its use of advanced language features and for optimal performance. It has been developed and tested primarily on Unix-like systems (Linux, macOS) and Windows.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This module requires the following Perl modules:

=over 4

=item * v5.10 or higher

=item * IO::Handle

=item * Fcntl

=item * Encode

=item * Compress::Zlib

=item * File::Temp

=item * Time::HiRes

=item * xclass (for handling specific reference types and core functionality)

=back

=head1 VERSION

Version 2.0.0

This documentation refers to iclass version 2.0.0.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<xclass>, L<lclass>, L<hclass>, L<aclass>, L<sclass>, L<cclass>, L<gclass>, L<rclass>, L<tclass>

=head1 AUTHOR

OnEhIppY, Domero Software <domerosoftware@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2024 OnEhIppY, Domero Software

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
